Professional Development Wednesday

Today we had our weekly Professional Development Wednesday.  A recap of the previous weeks events were filled with different speakers coming in to speak to the class or we have had a site visit
A list of the different speakers and the companies they currently work at include:
Paul Farley - Trusted See
Don Howard - Aaron's
Craig Baltes - Aflac
We also had a fun filled day touring the beautiful campus at Cox Communications.  Our hosts that day were Hadji Hicks and Gabriel Egwu.  Both of these Men were former students of the City of Refuge Cybersecurity Cohort.  

Every week Mr. Ron Cofield leads the Professional Development classes.  And every week he has a particular activity for us to complete.  The first couple of weeks activities included:
Completing Value cards- We were given a set of cards to pick out different things that we valued.  And each phase of the activity we kept removing different cards, until we were left with just three cards.
The three cards listed the three things that we valued the most.
We also completed and Ennegram test.  This test was actually pretty accurate when it came down to my final results.  
Last week we comepleted "My 3 + 2"  The task was to list three things that you liked about yourself and two things and weren't so great about yourself.  This ultimately would prepare us for the question of what are your strengths and weaknesses.

Today the focus was on Disciplines and Self Awarness.  The quote of the day that stood out for me was when Mr. Ron said "Direction helps determine our Destination".  
We need disciplines in place to align our direction.  
Task of the day - List two of your Personal Disciplines
My first discipline 
Regardless of how crazy my schedule is after I leave school, I definitely will get my Daily GitHub assignment done regardless of where I am.  Usually I'm out and about and I am on the go while I sign on to complete the assignment.  The GitHub assignment is a part of my daily school routine and a daily requirement.  I know I have to get it done so I GET IT DONE!

My second discipline
When I get home I like to have my school work completed and have my "Home Time" as "My Time".  I think it is important to shut off "Work" and have "ME" time,  That balance is Healthy  and Very important  because it helps me Recharge, Reflect and Refocus.  It helps me be present and ready for the next day.  You have to shut down one day completely to be ready for the next.

Next we went on to collectively as a class to go over some practice Network+ exam quesitions
I was extremely proud of myself because all my continuous practicing of these practice exams are paying off.  Because I was able to get the bulk of the questions correct.  This just shows that practice makes perfect.  And I definently want to master these practice exams to better prepare me to PASS my Network+ exam!!

Second Half of Professional Development Day

We played a game on Kahoot. The game was based around being aware of different Cultures.  We then had another Culutural awareness team activity where it was more about being mindful of how you say things and being respectful of different culutres.  Ultimately its about being conscious of your communication, your words and your actions.  You always want to be respectful to others around you especially now they we working in a really diverse work environment with people have a wide range of cultural backgrounds.  I always strive to respect everyone, not just culturally but as individuals.
