today was the first day back from Spring Break.  And we jumped right back into learning about networking.  We started with a review of the week prior topics as always we start with the OSI model, but we focus mainly on one the physical layer and layer to the data link layer.  The physical has Bits (1s and 0s), and can be wired or wireless.  The rules for wired are Twisted Pair, Coax and Fiber.  The Twisted Pair cables can be shielded STP or unshielded UTP. The Coax cable is the cable  cable is the cable that is used in cable TV connections. The Fiber cables has connectors that can either be straight (ST) or LC (lucent)and subscriber (SC)connector those are considered standards.  Also in the physical layer, our media converters, amplifiers and repeaters.  amplifiers use waves for analog and repeaters use digital signals (1s and 0s). A hub is a defies that sends every signal to everyone, so it is considered not smart.  And because it send all the information to every device it slows down the system.

moving onto something that is considered smart is a switch.  A switch is located on data Link layer two which has the media access control or physical Mac address. We also have frames located at this layer.  A switch is considered smart because when it receives data from the computer, it will then learn the address that is supposed to be going to, and instead of sending it out to all the devices like a Hub would; the switch will only send it to the specified device.  One way that I saw that I remember it is to think of a Hub as sending a group chat message and a switch as sending a private message.  Overall, it seems like hubs are pretty much obsolete and switches all the way to go however they still have and sell hubs but the preferable way is to use a switch.

CSMA/CD- carrier since multiple access with collision detection. This is also known as the Ethernet.  When breaking down this term, the CS carrier sense means that the device will listen to the media before transmission. The MA multiple access means that all devices have equal access to the media.  They all can try to talk but they have to wait their turn to do so.  And CD collision detection happens when two devices are talking and there is a collision if a collision happens they have to back off for a different amount of time and then they will try again to talk so they won't have another collision.  CSMA/CD is used in older, ethernet like hubs.  New ethernet that uses switches do not need this because the switches help avoid or prevent collisions.  

Half Duplex and Full Duplex
Half duplex is when transmission is in one direction.  Only one device can send data at a time.  The example of a half duplex will be a walkie-talkie.  Hub always is at half duplex.
Full duplex is when devices can transmit and receive data at the same time.  An example of full duplex would be the telephone.
Multiplexor and DeMultiplexor
Multiplexor (MUX) combines multiple signal and sends them through one line.
Demultiplexor (DeMUX) takes that one combine signal and splits it back into many. 
An easy way to remember, MUX mixes signals together and DeMUX divide signals apart.  
A Bridge is you to connect to a more network segments? It is on the data Link layer to a bridge. Has two jacks or more it maintains Mac address table controls data traffic. Another name for a MAC table is a CAM table. 

Today was a really good review day of all the information. It was broken down thoroughly by other diagrams on the board, the modules or by watching several videos about the same content, but getting different interpretations and perspectives.  Today was a really good day for me. I felt like I absorbed the information and it was a great start to our first week back.
