BCDR: Business Continuity & Disaster Recovery

Redundancy Strategies


Business Continuity Planning (BCP) (The Big Plan)
Plan that outlines how your business will continue operating during an unplanned disruption in Service.
Focus on the ENTIRE business running.
How to get back to normal business.

Disaster Recovery Plan (DRP) (Fix IT Plan)
Focus on IT systems, Networks, and Data Recovery.
A detailed plan for how your business will recover lost data, restore technology systems, and get IT operations running again after a major disruption.

Business Impact Analysis (BIA) (Thinking Plan)
Figure out which parts of your business are most important and what happens if they stop working.
Calculate impact as costs.
>Identify Business Priorities
>Identify Risks
>Assess Likelihood
>Assess Impact
>Prioritize resources

Mission Essential Functions (MEF) must be restored first.

Continuity of Operations Planning (COOP) – Resume Critical Functions in the event disaster, disruption or crisis.


Annual Rate of Occurrence (ARO)
Estimate how often a specific threat or event is expected to occur within a year
ARO= Number of times (frequency) happen in a year


Single Loss Expectancy (ALE) $$$$ Monetary Loss
Amount of damage a risk cause over a one year period


High Availability
Making sure a system or service is up and running ALMOST ALL the time with very little downtime
**Downtime- percent (%) of time system is unavailable


Maximum Tolerable Downtime (MTD)
Deadline for restoring a system or process after a disruption

Scalability- Your system can handle more users, data, or work by ignoring bigger and spreading out
**Scale Up- Increase power of existing resources (Vertical) 
**Scale Out- Add more resources in parallel with existing resources (Horizontal)


Load Balancing
Distribute workload across multiple systems; Handles Heartbeat
*Heartbeat- shows that signal is active


Types:

Round Robin 
(123,123)
Fixed / Sequential

Weighting- 
Percent based off traffic
Smart, constantly montitoring, More Expensive
Assigns specifically to an application

Dynamic
Random select
Has 9 Algorithms

Load Balancing Network
Customer
Internet
Load Balancer (Auto scaling)
Applications



Tabletop Exercises
Teams discussing and working through Hypothetical scernarios


Failover Test- Intentionally causes the failure of a primary system or component

Simulations
Controlled experiments replicating real world scenarios
EX: Phising attack, Password requests, Data Breaches


Parallel Processing Tests
Run Primary and Backup systems simulataneously improved performance and recovery


Indicator of Compromise (IoC) 
"Breadcrumbs"
What attackers leave behind, even when they try to hide their tracks
A clue or piece of evidence that suggests a system has been hacked, infected, or otherwise compromised
Digital fingerprint left behind by an attacker


Fake Telemetry
False or Manipulated data that a system, software, or attacker sends to make it appear normal or healthy.


Paper Test
Non-Technical security test where you renew documents and procedures instead of running code or tools.  
Like reading the playbook to see if the security plan makes sense without actually playing the game
