Professional Development Wednesday

Topics- Resume Building and LinkedIn - Isabelle Barnett and Sybil Wermert
Guest Speaker - Darrell J. Stinson


Resume 
The Purpose of a resume is to Ultimately GET THE INTERVIEW!!
A resume lays the groundwork of Who you are
Make your resume a Living Document because it is constantly changing (Ex: New certifications being added)
Heading- Name, Contact information (phone, email), LinkedIn contact
Make sure your email is professional and preferably use an email with your name in the email address.
Location- Be generic. Example- Use Atlanta, Ga as opposed to full address

Professional Summary
A Professional Summary is like a Marketing statement or "Your Story" summarized.
Objectives are not used on resumes anymore
The difference in an Objective and a Professional Summary is that the Objective is listing things that you want and a Professional Summary is listing focusing on what the employer is looking for.  
Keep this portion brief (3-4 sentences).  If you have more experience than potentially 5 sentences
Highlight Technical skills, Work Ethic
If you are in school or a recent graduate add this with the date of graduation or pending graduation date

TIPS TO REMEMBER

ALWAYS READ THE JOB DESCRIPTION!! Be familiar with the job you are applying to.  You can tailor your resume for that particular role.  
You can use keywords to customize your resume to match what the employer is looking for.

Add Technical Education first
Add Key points that will help your resume potentially stand out- EX: Selected out of a 1000 applicants for a full scholarship at the City of Refuge Cybersecurity program
Add any other degrees outside of the current program (EX: Georgia State Graduate - Science major)
Certifications go under Education

Resume Length
Try to keep it simple and down to one page.  
One Page resumes are more ideal for recruiters.  It's easier for them to read and has more of a possibility to be reviewed as opposed to a 2-3 page resume

No Technical Experience
If you do not have technical experience use terms or skills from previous work experience
Examples of terms to use: Team Work, Leadership, Meeting Deadlines, Manage Teams, and Multi-task
Do not add things from 10 years ago unless it's relevant.

Work Experience
Keep it General
Include Skills obtained like People Management or Time Management
Include Projects- Technical related
Skils taylored to the job: Problem solving, Technical troubleshooting, incidence response, collaboration

LinkedIN
Replicates your resume
Summary of your resume

Focus of your "Headline"
Attach your resume in PDF
Add Banner- "Open to Work" on your profile.  This will help you get noticed by recruiters
Title- Use things like "Entry level", "Early Career", "New Cybersecurity Analyst with many years of experience in ..."

Leveraging LinkedIN
Helps you Elevate applications and search results.  
Target companies you like by following the company, making connections within that company. stay up to date with the company and engage with the company
Join Groups- Cyber or Tech related groups
Participating in Group discussions can help you stay up to date with anything tech related or learn about new Certifications
Congratulate your colleages and fellow students

Making Connections
When trying to make a connection with someone, add a personal note to every connection request if possible.  
Connect with every City of Refuge speaker and Thank them for coming out and speaking with the class
Connect with City of Refuge graduates
Don't worry about asking for help
Try to create a network within companies
BE VISIBLE!!!

Guest speaker - Darrell J. Stinson - Cohere Health

Mr. Stinson started with some of his background history.  He started in the Military 25 years ago, then went into Real Estate for a short period.  He then transistioned into Truck driving.  It was then while he was driving trucks that he was persuing his degree in Tech.  He started as a Help desk support tech. then went on to become a Security Engineer at a startup.  

I asked the first question of the day which was What was his thoughts on Degrees vs Certifications.  He said BOTH were important, but it depends on the role you are persuing.  That was the first time someone put it in that perspective.  Most times I here Certifications is the big thing in tech but he did not downgrade a degree, he said they both were important but depending on the role is when one will shine more light than the other.  Mr. Sinson said Certifications shows how proficient you are in area of tech, and Degrees are a Body of Knowledge.

Tips From Mr. Stinson
Keep Resume to one page
NETWORK- Go to events, by doing this it will help build your confidence when speaking in front of people
Be persistent
Be about your business
Build your Brand
Create Business Relationships
Take Risks
Make yourself stand out
Create a space for just for you

Steps to Success
The path you take and the path may change. You plan on going straight up but sometimes you may miss a step and have to go backwards. Sometimes you can skip a step or two.  Sometimes you may have to Build more steps.

"STRETCH" 
IF Whatever you're doing doesn't wake you up at night, terrify you, Challenge you, consume your thoughts, elevate you, encourage you, inspire you,
Then you may not be in the right space.  This type of behavior will motivate you

CREATING GOOD HABITS
             GOALS
  |           |             |
Objectives    Objectives     Objectives
Essential Tasks Examples:
Physical Fitness
Reading (Education)
Business Context
Recharge- Take vacations/breaks.  Move your email from home page on your phone
Values- Keep my word, Family Finances, Giving back, Relationships with Friends, How I treat others

BOOK LIST
1- Zero to One: Notes on Startups, Or How to Build the Future By Blake Masters and Peter Thiel
2- The Almanack of Navl Ravikant by Eric Jorgenson
3-  Never Split the Difference: Negotiating As If Your Life Depended On It by Christopher Voss and Tahl Raz
4- Smart Brevity- The Power of Saying More with Less by Jim VandeHei, Mike Allen, and Roy Schwartz
5- The Art of Organizational Transformation by Garrett Bradley
6- The Wisdom of the Bullfrog: Leadership Made Simple (But Not Easy) by William H. McRaven
7- Essentialism: The Disciplined Pursuit of Less by Greg McKeown
